In the last video we've seen how to create AJAX spinner
and add that in questions component. So to add
AJAX spinner in our code
we need to call the spinner component in our template
and control the visibility by making use the v-if
directive.
Then we need to define this loading in data method
and set it to false to make the spinner invisible
by default.
Then before we send the request we set the loading
to true to make the spinner visible and we can
set it back to false
when we get the response.
So basically you can add the spinner in other
pages by following the similar steps.
But imagine you have a lot of pages and you
want to add the AJAX spinner on them.
Of course following all those steps is tedious
right?
So in this video I'm gonna show you how to reduce
those steps, so that we can add the AJAX spinner on
the page more easy.
To do that let's switch back over to our browser
and here let's find axios axios. Hit this
link
then find interceptor
OK
Here it is.
So here you can intercept requests or responses
before they are handled by `then` or `catch`.
So to add a request interceptor we can use this code
and to add a response interceptor we can use this
code.
So here let's just copy these lines
Back to our editor
and now you might be thinking where we're gonna put the code.
Well, we can put the code in app.js file which
is our view js entry file. So let's often that file
and in this file
let's go to vue instantiation.
So in here let's utilise the created hook,
then inside here just paste the code.
Here in axios interceptors request
let's console log the message,
copy this,
then in axios interceptors requests just
paste the code and change to response
intercepted. Now if we save this, back to our browser
open the browser console and reload.
Here we have a request intercepted
and then response intercepted.
OK, now let's go back to our editor
and here let's define data property.
Here in vue instance we can find the data
as property not method. And inside here
let's define loading and we'll set it to false.
Now here in created hook
here
let's change the loading to true
and then when error occurred we can set loading back the false.
Then in here we can set leading to falls whether succeed or failed.
Now let's which to questions component
and here let's remove this
also this one
remove this
then in template we can chance this to root dot loading.
So in every child component we can access the
data of the root component using root variable. As a
note this root the variable is fine for small contained
instances, for anything larger you should use something
called state management like vuex. Now let's save all
changes
back to our browser and reload.
whoops I get error cannot set property loading of underlined.
Let me see in app.js
Here let's change all these functions to arrow function
let me save this, back to the browser and reload.
Okay as you can see the spinner still working and
in console we don't have any error awesome.
Now let me show you how easily add ajax spinner on other
page. Back to editor and here let me open my posts
page dot view.
Here let me add
spinner
and then change this to
v else
if.  Let me go to questions
controller, copy this and then open my posts
controller
and here just paste the code.
Let me save all changes,
back to the browser,
reload.
I'll switch to my posts
here I have ajax spinner on this page.
So now to add ajax spinner on the page
we only need to add this spinner component and
before I end this video let me go to spinner. And here
It's better to use `i` tag instead of `div`
let's save
reload.
Okay great.